1NF (First Normal Form) Rules
   Each table cell should contain a single value.
   Each record needs to be unique.
2NF (Second Normal Form) Rules
   Rule 1- Be in 1NF
   Rule 2- Single Column Primary Key that does not functionally dependant on any subset of candidate key relation
3NF (Third Normal Form) Rules
   Rule 1- Be in 2NF
   Rule 2- Has no transitive functional dependencies
      where 2 fields are inherently linked where the change in one field likely denotes a change in another within the same table
      A transitive functional dependency is when changing a non-key column, might cause any of the other non-key columns to change
4NF (Fourth Normal Form) Rules
   If no database table instance contains two or more, independent and multivalued data describing the relevant entity, then it is in 4th Normal Form.

5NF (Fifth Normal Form) Rules
   A table is in 5th Normal Form only if it is in 4NF and it cannot be decomposed into any number of smaller tables without loss of data.

6NF (Sixth Normal Form) Proposed
   6th Normal Form is not standardized, yet however, it is being discussed by database experts for some time. Hopefully, we would have a clear & standardized definition for 6th Normal Form in the near future…




What is a KEY in SQL?

Note: Columns in a table that are NOT used to identify a record uniquely are called non-key columns.

Table Key - identifys a record per table
   A KEY in SQL is a value used to identify records in a table uniquely. An SQL KEY is a single column or combination of multiple columns used to uniquely identify rows or tuples in the table. SQL Key is used to identify duplicate information, and it also helps establish a relationship between multiple tables in the database.
primary key - identifys a record per database
   A primary is a single column value used to identify a database record uniquely
      A primary key cannot be NULL
      A primary key value must be unique
      The primary key values should rarely be changed
      The primary key must be given a value when a new record is inserted.
composite key - key of multiple fields that together identify a unique record

Foreign Key - references the primary key of another Table! It helps connect your Tables
   A foreign key can have a different name from its primary key
   It ensures rows in one table have corresponding rows in another
   Unlike the Primary key, they do not have to be unique. Most often they aren’t
   Foreign keys can be null even though primary keys can not
   You will only be able to insert values into your foreign key that exist in the unique key in the parent table. This helps in referential integrity.


Summary
Database designing is critical to the successful implementation of a database management system that meets the data requirements of an enterprise system.
Normalization in DBMS is a process which helps produce database systems that are cost-effective and have better security models.
Functional dependencies are a very important component of the normalize data process
Most database systems are normalized database up to the third normal forms in DBMS.
A primary key uniquely identifies are record in a Table and cannot be null
A foreign key helps connect table and references a primary key

